Rating 3:  After barely surviving his previous mission, Tyler Rake retires from mercenary work to a cabin in Austria after recovering at a hospital in Dubai, where he is approached by a stranger and is asked to rescue his ex-wife Mia's sister Ketevan and her two children Sandro and Nina, who are currently imprisoned along with her gangster husband Davit Radiani at Tkachiri prison in Georgia.
Rating 7: Tyler recruits Nik and Yaz to join him and they infiltrate the prison.
Rating 8: They attempt to get Ketevan and her children out without alerting a sleeping Davit, but he wakes up and alerts the other prisoners loyal to him, where they confront Tyler and his team and start a riot, forcing them to fight their way out.
Rating 8: During the extraction, Davit attacks Tyler and Ketevan with Tyler viciously killing Davit.
Rating 3: Tyler and Ketevan are swarmed by prisoners and forced to fight their way through the crowd while constantly being attacked.
Rating 4: The group manages to escape and return to their safe house in Vienna.
Rating 6: However, Ketevan and Davit's teenage son Sandro, who idolizes his father, realizes that Tyler had killed his father and secretly contacts his uncle and Davit's overprotective older brother Zurab, who sets out to track down Tyler in order to find his nephew and exact vengeance.        
Rating 3: Zurab and his men track down Tyler and the others to the safe house, trapping them in the building.
Rating 3: In the chaos, Sandro leaves the group to find Zurab.
Rating 8: Tyler and the group end up taking one of Zurab's helicopters to make their escape, but Yaz is killed by Zurab.
Rating 10: Tyler and the group return to his cabin, where he and Ketevan are reunited with Mia.
Rating 7: Tyler apologizes to Mia for leaving on a mission before their son died from cancer.
Rating 8: Zurab contacts Tyler, telling him to meet at a nearby airfield where he is holding Sandro hostage.
Rating 3: After assaulting the airfield, Tyler finds Zurab and Sandro in a nearby church, with Sandro wearing an explosive vest.
Rating 3: Zurab forces Sandro to take Tyler's pistol and take aim at him, but he refuses to shoot Tyler.
Rating 5: Nik arrives, which leads to a standoff.
Rating 10: Getting Sandro away, the three shoot at each other; Tyler fights and kills Zurab, but Nik is left seriously wounded and falls unconscious as police swarm the church. 
Rating 8: In the aftermath, Nik and Tyler are imprisoned and Mia informs Tyler that Ketevan and her children have been moved to protective custody.
Rating 5: She tells Tyler that his son actually wanted to be brave like him and she bids farewell.
Rating 6: Tyler is transported out of prison to meet with the stranger who offers to recruit him.
Rating 10: However, Tyler says that he cannot accept his offer without Nik, only to find that he had already brought Nik on board because he knew that Tyler would want her in the mission.